# **Enhanced tau neutrino appearance through invisible decay** 

Giulia Pagliaroli[1] _[∗]_ and Natalia Di Marco[2] and Massimo Mannarelli[2] 

> 1 _Gran Sasso Science Institute, L’Aquila (AQ), Italy and_ 

> 2 _INFN, Laboratori Nazionali del Gran Sasso, Assergi (AQ), Italy_ 

The decay of neutrino mass eigenstates leads to a change of the conversion and survival probability of neutrino flavor eigenstates. Remarkably, we find that the neutrino decay provides an enhancement of the expected tau appearance signal with respect to the standard oscillation scenario for the longbaseline OPERA experiment. The increase of the _νµ → ντ_ conversion probability by the decay of one of the mass eigenstates is due to a reduction of the “destructive interference” among the different massive neutrino components. Motivated by the recently released results of the OPERA Collaboration showing a number of observed _ντ_ events larger than expected, we perform a statistical analysis including the invisible decay hypothesis. We obtain a very mild preference for invisible decays, with a best fit value _τ_ 3 _/m_ 3 _≃_ 2 _._ 6 _×_ 10 _[−]_[13] s/eV, and a constraint at the 90% confidence level for the neutrino decay lifetime to be _τ_ 3 _/m_ 3 ≳ 1 _._ 3 _×_ 10 _[−]_[13] s/eV. 

## **I. INTRODUCTION** 

Nowadays, the three neutrino oscillation picture is established on a rather firm basis. Results from solar, reactor, atmospheric and accelerator experiments provide compelling evidences for the existence of in flight conversions between neutrinos of different flavors caused by nonzero neutrino masses and mixing angles [1]. 

Nevertheless, nonvanishing neutrino masses indicate the possibility that besides oscillating, neutrinos can decay. Historically, the neutrino decay scenario was the first mechanism proposed for explaining the solar neutrino problem [2, 3]. At present, the possibility of neutrino decay is constrained by many experimental observations. The Standard Model neutrino decays both through radiative and non-radiative processes are well constrained by the high precision measurement of the cosmic microwave background [1, 4]. Processes involving beyond Standard Model (BSM) physics as 

**==> picture [151 x 11] intentionally omitted <==**

are much less constrained. Here _νi_ ( _i_ = 1 _,_ 2 _,_ 3) is a neutrino mass eigenstate with mass _mi_ , while _ν_ and _X_ are particles in the final state. Actually, _ν_ can correspond to one or more neutrinos and _X_ can correspond to one or more non-observable particles, typically identified as scalar or pseudoscalar fields. The BSM decay in Eq.(1) can be classified as i) _visible decay_ , in which at least one neutrino in the final state is active; ii) _invisible decay_ , in which all _ν_ and _X_ are non-observable particles. In this last case, the final state neutrino particles are identified as _sterile_ neutrinos _νs_ . Focusing on invisible decay, we expect that a beam of (relativistic) _νi_ -neutrinos having lifetime, _τi_ , is depleted due to the invisible neutrino decay by the factor 

**==> picture [188 x 11] intentionally omitted <==**

> _∗_ 1giulia.pagliaroli@lngs.infn.it 

where _E_ is the neutrino energy, _L_ is the distance between the source and the detector and 

**==> picture [143 x 21] intentionally omitted <==**

is the decay parameter. It is evident that, for a given ratio _L/E_ , the neutrino decay is only sensitive to decay parameter. 

Limits on _αi_ have been derived by different neutrino sources. For electron antineutrinos, the most favorable combination is provided by the SN1987A ( _L_ = 50 kpc, _E ∼_ 20 MeV): the observation of electron antineutrinos in Kamiokande-II [5] and IMB [6] yields the lower limit _α_ 1 _∼ α_ 2 ≲ 10 _[−]_[5] eV/s [7, 8]. Other bounds are less stringent. As a leading example, the strongest modelindependent limits on _ν_ 2 non-radiative decays are obtained from solar neutrinos for which _E ∼_ 1 MeV and _L_ = 1 _._ 5 _×_ 10[8] km; in this case _α_ 2 ≲ 10[4] eV/s [9, 10]. For the visible decay modes, a stringent limit _α_ 2 ≲ 10[3] eV/s is obtained by the non-observation of solar _νe_ appearance in Kamland [11]. Independent and highly competitive limits can be also obtained by the observation of high-energy cosmic neutrinos as recently provided by the IceCube detector [12]. In this case due to the long baseline, the dependence on the lifetime parameters _τi_ disappears and the main information for discriminating the presence of non-radiative neutrino decays is the observed flavor ratios of neutrinos [13]. The _ν_ 3 lifetime can be bounded by atmospheric and long-baseline neutrino data obtaining [14] 

**==> picture [169 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

at 90% C.L., whereas the analysis using only longbaseline data provides less stringent limits [15, 16] _α_ 3 ≲ 0 _._ 3 _÷_ 0 _._ 5 _×_ 10[12] eV/s at 90% C.L. In both cases, let us stress that the analysis regards how the _α_ 3 decay parameter changes the _νµ → νµ_ survival probability. 

In the present manuscript, we exploit the recent results released by the long-baseline OPERA experiment [17] to perform the first investigation, to the best of our knowledge, of _α_ 3 using the _νµ → ντ_ appearance channel. We 

2 

show that the presence of a decay channel increases the _νµ → ντ_ conversion probability _Pµτ_ , for the OPERA values of _L/E_ . This differs from the behavior in the typical _L/E_ range values of MINOS and T2K experiments, for which the neutrino decay leads to a decrease of _Pµτ_ . In the case of the OPERA experiment, the enhancement is produced by the following mechanism: due to the experimental setup, the “destructive interference” of different mass eigenstates occurs and the decay of one mass eigenstate can partially wash out this interference increasing the _Pµτ_ with respect to the pure oscillations case. On the other hand, for the experimental setups of MINOS and T2K, the decay of one mass eigenstate reduces the “constructive interference” of the different mass eigenstates decreasing _Pµτ_ with respect to the standard oscillations case. The OPERA experiment [18, 19], located at the Gran Sasso Underground Laboratory (LNGS) of INFN, is designed to investigate the _ντ_ appearance channel on an event-by-event basis by using an artificial beam (Cern Neutrino to Gran Sasso, CNGS [20]) produced at CERN and mainly composed by _νµ_ . It reported a number of observed _ντ_ events larger than the expected value. This experimental result triggered our interest for checking whether including the decay hypothesis might improve the fit of the experimental value. We find that this is the case, indeed we obtain that _α_ 3[BF] _≃_ 3 _._ 8 _×_ 10[12] eV/s, but the statistical significance is rather poor, less than 1 _σ_ . The present paper is organized as follows. In Sec. II we discuss the _νµ_ to _ντ_ conversion probability given by the combination of flavor oscillations and the invisible decay of the _ν_ 3 mass eigenstate. We provide a general analysis for any value of _L/E_ , comparing the behavior of _Pµτ_ for the OPERA experiment with that for the MINOS and T2K experiments. In Sec. III we use the recent results on the number of observed _ντ_ events reported by the OPERA Collaboration in [17] to derive a best fit value and an upper limit value for _α_ 3. We draw our conclusions in Sec. IV. 

## **II. COMBINING NEUTRINO OSCILLATION AND DECAY: THE MODEL** 

Let us assume that active neutrinos are subject to both standard mixing and invisible decays. Therefore, propagating neutrinos mix among flavor eigenstates in an oscillatory time-reversible manner and disappear due to time-irreversible decay. In this hypothesis, the mass eigenstates evolution is given by 

**==> picture [182 x 15] intentionally omitted <==**

where _Ei ≃ p_ + _m_[2] _i[/]_[(2] _[p]_[) and Γ] _[i]_[=] _[ α][i][/E][i]_[.][Clearly, massive] neutrinos of any flavor can decay by invisible processes. In the two neutrino flavor approximation, which is adequate to describe long-baseline experiments, both _ν_ 3 and _ν_ 2 can decay. However, bearing in mind that the baseline of the OPERA experiment is _L_ 0 _≃_ 730 km, the mean neutrino energy is _E_ 0 _≃_ 17 GeV and the stringent limits 

on the value of _α_ 2 found both with solar and SN data (see Sec. I), we can set _α_ 2 = 0 in our considerations. Note that this is implicitly assumed in the analysis reported in [14–16] where, in a two flavor approximation, only _ν_ 3 is allowed to decay through the process _ν_ 3 _→ νs_ + _X_ while _ν_ 2 is considered stable. 

Assuming that the flavor eigenstates are obtained by rotation with the standard mixing matrix 

**==> picture [184 x 25] intentionally omitted <==**

and upon substituting Γ _i_ = _δi_ 3 _αi/Ei_ in Eq. (5), we find, in agreement with [16], the survival probability 

**==> picture [247 x 61] intentionally omitted <==**

and the conversion probability 

**==> picture [247 x 61] intentionally omitted <==**

where ∆ _m_[2] 23[=] _[m]_[2] 3 _[−][m]_[2] 2[and][we][replaced] _[t][→][L]_[.][These] probabilities depend on the combination of three different 

1. The flavor eigenstates are superposition of the mass eigenstates, leading to the _θ_ 23 dependence; 

2. The mass eigenstates have different masses, leading to the ∆ _m_[2] 23[dependence;] 

3. The mass eigenstate _ν_ 3 can decay, leading to the _α_ 3 dependence. 

An interesting aspect is that _Pµµ_ + _Pµτ_ = 1 _−_ sin[2] _θ_ 23(1 _− e[−]_[2] 2 _[α] E_[3] _[L]_ ), meaning that the total number of neutrinos is not conserved if _α_ 3 = 0. Moreover, the conversion probability is nonzero even for ∆ _m_[2] 32 _[→]_[0,][cor-] responding to the pure decay case. First introduced by Barger in [21], the pure decay case is ruled out at more than 3 _σ_ by SK [22] atmospheric neutrino data and at 7 _σ_ by the MINOS data analysis [23]. 

The plots in Fig. 1 represent the survival probability (top panel) and the conversion probability (bottom panel) as a function of _L/E_ in the two-flavor approximation. In these plots we used _m_[BF] 23[= ∆] _[m]_[2] 23[= 2] _[.]_[44] _[ ×]_[ 10] _[−]_[3] eV[2] , _θ_ 23[BF][= sin(] _[θ]_[23][)][2][= 0] _[.]_[452][corresponding][to][the][best-] fit values of the global analysis of [24]. The general effect of the neutrino decay is a damping of the standard oscillation amplitude. With increasing values of _α_ 3, i.e. decreasing the neutrino lifetime, the damping effect is 

3 

**==> picture [226 x 287] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
1.0<br>0.8<br>0.6<br>0.4<br>0.2<br>0.0<br>0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000<br>L/E (km/GeV)<br>1.0<br>0.8<br>0.6<br>0.4<br>0.2<br>0.0<br>0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000<br>L/E (km/GeV)<br>μμ<br>P<br>μτ<br>P<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


FIG. 1. (Color online) Survival probability (top panel) and conversion probability (bottom panel), as a function of the ratio _L/E_ in the two-flavor approximation. The dotted blue lines correspond to the oscillation-only scenario. The red dashed lines refer to the oscillation plus decay hypothesis for _α_ 3 = 10[11] eV/s. The black solid lines correspond to the oscillation plus decay hypothesis for _α_ 3 = 10[13] eV/s. The green solid lines represent the pure decay case with _α_ 3 = 10[11] eV/s. 

stronger. For very short decay times the neutrino oscillations are strongly suppressed even for low values of the ratio _L/E_ . For very high values of _L/E_ , or equivalently allowing neutrino to propagate through very long distances at a fixed neutrino source energy, the neutrino conversion probability tends to the constant value cos[2] _θ_ 23 sin[2] _θ_ 23. The pure decay case is shown in Figs. 1 with the green solid line for _α_ 3 = 10[11] eV/s. 

As discussed in Sec. I, the analysis of disappearance data of atmospheric and long baseline experiments, led to the limits on the value of _α_ 3 reported in Eq.(4). The same parameter can be studied with the appearance data of the long baseline OPERA experiment. Fig.2 shows a zoom of the conversion probability _Pµτ_ in the region of _L/E_ relevant for OPERA, MINOS and T2K. The dotted blue line corresponds to the oscillation-only scenario, the red dashed line refers to the oscillation plus decay hypothesis for _α_ 3 = 10[11] eV/s while the black solid line refers to the oscillation plus decay hypothesis for _α_ 3 = 10[13] eV/s. Arrows in the figure indicate the characteristic ratio _R_[ˆ] = _L_ 0 _/E_ 0 for the different long-baseline experiments, where _L_ 0 is the baseline and _E_ 0 is the average neutrino beam energy. In particular, 

**==> picture [227 x 151] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
1.0<br>0.8<br>0.6<br>0.4<br>Opera Minos T2K<br>0.2<br>0.0<br>0 100 200 300 400 500 600<br>L/E (km/GeV)<br>μτ<br>P<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


FIG. 2. (Color online) Conversion probability in the region of _L/E_ investigated by OPERA, MINOS and T2K experiments. The dotted blue line corresponds to the oscillation-only scenario. The red dashed line refers to the oscillation plus decay hypothesis for _α_ 3 = 10[11] eV/s. The black solid line refers to the oscillation plus decay hypothesis for _α_ 3 = 10[13] eV/s. The arrows indicate the characteristic _L/E_ of OPERA, MINOS, and T2K. 

ˆ ˆ _R_ OPERA _≃_ 730 _/_ 17 km _/_ GeV, _R_ MINOS _≃_ 730 _/_ 3 km _/_ GeV and _R_[ˆ] T2K _≃_ 295 _/_ 2 _._ 6 km _/_ GeV. These ratios determine the phase of the transition probability _Pµτ_ of Eq.(8). When the decay is turned off, i.e. _α_ 3 = 0, the Eq.(8) reduces only to the last term due to the interference between the massive components. For the value _R_[ˆ] OPERA a situation of destructive interference occurs giving the very small value _Pµτ ≃_ 0 _._ 02. On the other hand, for _α_ 3 _→∞_ , the Eq.(8) reduces only to the constant term cos[2] _θ_ 23 sin[2] _θ_ 23 and _Pµτ ≃_ 0 _._ 25 (with _θ_ 23[BF][).][As][a][conse-] quence, the OPERA experiment is the only one characterized by an enhancement of the conversion probability when the decay mechanism is turned on with respect to the oscillation-only hypothesis. The opposite situation happens in the case of MINOS and T2K, for which the conversion probability decreases for nonvanishing _α_ 3 with respect to the oscillation-only hypothesis. Clearly, an increase of the conversion probability leads to an increase of the number of expected _ντ_ events in OPERA. We will discuss this issue in the next section. 

## **III. ANALYSIS OF THE OPERA** _νµ → ντ_ **APPEARANCE RESULTS** 

The OPERA Collaboration recently reported the observation of the 5th candidate _ντ_ event found in the analysis of an enlarged data sample. The total number of expected events were 2 _._ 64 _±_ 0 _._ 53 and 0 _._ 25 _±_ 0 _._ 05 for signal and background respectively, obtained by assuming ∆ _m_[2] 23[=][2] _[.]_[44] _[ ×]_[ 10] _[−]_[3][eV][2][and][sin][2][(2] _[θ]_[23][)][=][1.][This][re-] sult provides a 5 _._ 1 _σ_ evidence for the presence of _νµ → ντ_ oscillations in the three neutrino flavors framework [17]. Given that the number of observed _ντ_ is larger than expected, and considering the discussion in the previous 

4 

section, it seems likely that neutrino decays might be active. In the neutrino decay plus oscillation hypothesis, the number of expected _ντ_ events can be obtained combining the oscillation probability in Eq. (8) with the beam and detector characteristics as follows, 

**==> picture [247 x 35] intentionally omitted <==**

where Φ _µ_ ( _E_ ) is the CNGS _νµ_ flux [25], _np.o.t_ = 17 _._ 97 _·_ 10[19] is the total number of delivered protons on target (p.o.t) in 5 year of data taking (from 2008 to 2012) [17], _σντ_ ( _E_ ) is the _ντ_ CC cross section [26], N _P b_ = _NA × M_ is the number of nucleon contained in the 1.2 kton of OPERA lead target [19]. Finally, the factor _ϵ_ is the overall experimental _ντ_ detection efficiency. 

In order to estimate the efficiency factor _ϵ_ , we consider the oscillation only hypothesis, i.e. _α_ 3 =0, with ∆ _m_[2] 23[=] 2 _._ 44 _×_ 10 _[−]_[3] eV[2] and sin[2] (2 _θ_ 23) = 1. Using Eq.(9) and setting the efficiency to 1, the number of expected _ντ_ events is _∼_ 43 _._ 5. Comparing this value with the one quoted by the OPERA Collaboration 2 _._ 64, we assume _ϵ_ = 2 _._ 64 _/_ 43 _._ 5 _≃_ 6%. 

**==> picture [226 x 144] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
50<br>20<br>10<br>5<br>2<br>0 1 × 10 [13] 2 × 10 [13] 3 × 10 [13] 4 × 10 [13] 5 × 10 [13] 6 × 10 [13]<br>α3(eV/s)<br>N τ<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


FIG. 3. (Color online) Expected number of _ντ_ events (solid black line) from Eq. (9) as a function of the decay parameter _α_ 3 and for _m_[BF] 23[,] _[θ]_ 23[BF][[24].][The][blue][dashed][line][shows,][in][ar-] bitrary units, the normalized likelihood function. The dotted red line is the number of observed _ντ_ events in OPERA. 

The dependence of _Nν[th] τ_[on] _[α]_[3][is][reported][in][Fig.][3] with a solid black line; the dotted red line represents the observed number of events in OPERA. The number of expected _ντ_ events _Nν[th] τ_[increases][as][a][function][of][the] parameter _α_ 3 and saturates to about 67 events when the decay is complete, i.e. _α_ 3 _→∞_ . 

The best-fit value for the decay parameter _α_ 3 can be estimated by maximizing the Poisson likelihood functions 

**==> picture [163 x 13] intentionally omitted <==**

where _λ_ = _Nν[th] τ_[(] _[α]_[3][) +] _[ b]_[,] _[n]_[are][the][observed][events,] _[b]_[=] 0 _._ 25 are the background events quoted by the OPERA Collaboration. The normalized likelihood function is reported in Fig. 3 in arbitrary units with a dashed blue 

**==> picture [227 x 149] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
6<br>5<br>4<br>3<br>2<br>1<br>0<br>0 2 × 10 [12] 4 × 10 [12] 6 × 10 [12] 8 × 10 [12] 1 × 10 [13]<br>α3(eV/s)<br>2<br>Δχ<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


FIG. 4. (Color online) Value of ∆ _χ_[2] as a function of _α_ 3 considering the others two oscillation parameters fixed to their best-fit values, _i.e. m[BF]_ 23[,] _[θ]_ 23 _[BF]_ (blue dashed line) and when the likelihood is marginalized with respect to these two (black solid line). The horizontal lines correspond to the 1 _σ_ (solid red line) and 90% of confidence level (dotted red line). 

line. In this case the oscillations parameters sin[2] _θ_ 23 and ∆ _m_[2] 23[are][fixed][to][their][best-fit][values][provided][by][the] global analysis of oscillation data [24]. The corresponding ∆ _χ_[2] function is reported in Fig. 4 with a dashed blue line. We find that OPERA data show a 1 _σ_ preference for the oscillations plus decay model with respect to the oscillation only hypothesis. Indeed the minimum for the _χ_[2] is characterized by _α_ 3[BF] _≃_ 4 _._ 4 _×_ 10[12] eV/s. To understand the role of the others oscillation parameters we include sin[2] _θ_ 23 and ∆ _m_[2] 23[as][free][parameters] of the likelihood function. By maximizing the new Poisson likelihood function we find _α_ 3[BF] _≃_ 3 _._ 8 _×_ 10[12] eV/s, (sin[2] _θ_ 23) _[BF]_ = 0 _._ 458 and (∆ _m_[2] 23[)] _[BF]_[=][2] _[.]_[42] _[ ×]_[ 10] _[−]_[3][eV][2][.] In Fig. 4 we show with a black solid line the ∆ _χ_[2] function obtained by marginalizing with respect to the other two oscillation parameters, _i.e._ allowing them to fluctuate inside their 3 _σ_ ranges of uncertainty[1]. The preference for a value of _α_ 3 different from zero is stable, however its statistical significance slightly decreases. Using this ∆ _χ_[2] , we can finally set our upper limit at 90 % of confidence level for the neutrino decay lifetime of _α_ 3 ≲ 7 _._ 7 _×_ 10[12] eV/s, or _τ_ 3 _/m_ 3 ≳ 1 _._ 3 _×_ 10 _[−]_[13] s/eV. 

## **IV. CONCLUSIONS** 

Motivated by the recently released OPERA results in the _ντ_ appearance channel reporting a number of observed events larger than expected, we have performed an analysis of the conversion probability in the presence of neutrino invisible decays. Remarkably, neutrino decay enhances the conversion probability for the OPERA experimental setup, indeed data show a preference for a decay constant different to zero. We have demonstrated that for the ratio _L/E_ characteristic of the OPERA experiment the oscillations plus decay model can provide 

5 

an enhancement of the conversion probability _Pµτ_ with respect to the oscillation only hypothesis. This enhancement results in a corresponding increase of the expected number of _ντ_ CC interactions that better fits the observed number of events (let us remind that the probability of observing 5 or more candidates with an expectation of 2 _._ 64 signal plus 0 _._ 25 background events is 17% from Poisson statistics [17]). Due to the small statistics, the best fit value we have found for _α_ 3 has less than 1 _σ_ significance and the upper limit at 90% of confidence level for the neutrino decay lifetime is not competitive with respect to the one already provided by the combined 

- [1] K. A. Olive _et al._ (Particle Data Group), Chin. Phys. **C38** , 090001 (2014). 

- [2] J. N. Bahcall, N. Cabibbo, and A. Yahil, Phys. Rev. Lett. **28** , 316 (1972). 

- [3] S. Pakvasa and K. Tennakone, Phys. Rev. Lett. **28** , 1415 (1972). 

- [4] A. Mirizzi, D. Montanino, and P. D. Serpico, Phys. Rev. **D76** , 053007 (2007), arXiv:0705.4667 [hep-ph]. 

- [5] K. Hirata _et al._ (Kamiokande-II), _GRAND UNIFICATION. PROCEEDINGS, 8TH WORKSHOP, SYRACUSE, USA, APRIL 16-18, 1987_ , Phys. Rev. Lett. **58** , 1490 (1987), [,727(1987)]. 

- [6] R. M. Bionta _et al._ , Phys. Rev. Lett. **58** , 1494 (1987). 

- [7] J. A. Frieman, H. E. Haber, and K. Freese, Phys. Lett. **B200** , 115 (1988). 

- [8] P. Baerwald, M. Bustamante, and W. Winter, JCAP **1210** , 020 (2012), arXiv:1208.4600 [astro-ph.CO]. 

- [9] A. S. Joshipura, E. Masso, and S. Mohanty, Phys. Rev. **D66** , 113008 (2002), arXiv:hep-ph/0203181 [hep-ph]. 

- [10] A. Bandyopadhyay, S. Choubey, and S. Goswami, Phys. Lett. **B555** , 33 (2003), arXiv:hep-ph/0204173 [hep-ph]. 

- [11] K. Eguchi _et al._ (KamLAND), Phys. Rev. Lett. **92** , 071301 (2004), arXiv:hep-ex/0310047 [hep-ex]. 

- [12] M. G. Aartsen _et al._ (IceCube), Phys. Rev. Lett. **113** , 101101 (2014), arXiv:1405.5303 [astro-ph.HE]. 

- [13] G. Pagliaroli, A. Palladino, F. L. Villante, and F. Vissani, Phys. Rev. **D92** , 113008 (2015), arXiv:1506.02624 [hep-ph]. 

analysis of SK, Minos and T2K, see Eq. (4). However, the information given by the _ντ_ appearance channel is complementary and could be interesting to strengthen this analysis by including the larger data sets of the SK detector in this channel [27] . 

## **ACKNOWLEDGMENTS** 

We would like to thank F.L. Villante for valuable discussions. 

   - [15] P. Adamson _et al._ (MINOS), Phys. Rev. **D81** , 052004 (2010), arXiv:1001.0336 [hep-ex]. 

   - [16] R. A. Gomes, A. L. G. Gomes, and O. L. G. Peres, Phys. Lett. **B740** , 345 (2015), arXiv:1407.5640 [hep-ph]. 

   - [17] N. Agafonova _et al._ (OPERA), Phys. Rev. Lett. **115** , 121802 (2015), arXiv:1507.01417 [hep-ex]. 

   - [18] R. Acquafredda _et al._ , JINST **4** , P04018 (2009). 

   - [19] N. Agafonova _et al._ (OPERA), JHEP **11** , 036 (2013), [Erratum: JHEP04,014(2014)], arXiv:1308.2553 [hep-ex]. 

   - [20] K. Elsener _et al._ , CERN 98-02, INFN/AE-98/05 (1998). 

   - [21] V. D. Barger, J. G. Learned, S. Pakvasa, and T. J. Weiler, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82** , 2640 (1999), arXiv:astroph/9810121 [astro-ph]. 

   - [22] Y. Ashie _et al._ (Super-Kamiokande), Phys. Rev. Lett. **93** , 101801 (2004), arXiv:hep-ex/0404034 [hep-ex]. 

   - [23] P. Adamson _et al._ (MINOS), Phys. Rev. Lett. **106** , 181801 (2011), arXiv:1103.0340 [hep-ex]. 

   - [24] M. C. Gonzalez-Garcia, M. Maltoni, and T. Schwetz, JHEP **11** , 052 (2014), arXiv:1409.5439 [hep-ph]. 

   - [25] R. Bailey _et al._ , Addendum to Report No. CERN 9802, INFN/AE-98/05, CERN-SL/99-034(DI), INFN/AE99/05 (1999). 

   - [26] J. A. Formaggio and G. P. Zeller, Rev. Mod. Phys. **84** , 1307 (2012), arXiv:1305.7513 [hep-ex]. 

   - [27] K. Abe _et al._ (Super-Kamiokande), Phys. Rev. Lett. **110** , 181802 (2013), arXiv:1206.0328 [hep-ex]. 

- [14] M. C. Gonzalez-Garcia and M. Maltoni, Phys. Lett. **B663** , 405 (2008), arXiv:0802.3699 [hep-ph]. 

